---
title: "Overwatch Open Division Season 2, Week Seven Recap (Filipino Teams)"
date: 2017-10-20T12:14:34+06:00
image: "images/blog/blog24.png"
description: "Miraculum vs. J3X Eternity in a battle for a playoff spot!"
draft: false
---

In the final week of the Overwatch Open Division Season 2, there were two Filipinos teams left in the running for a top 8 finish. With only the top 8 moving on, Mineski and Miraculum both had to win their match-ups to reach the playoffs. The teams had struggles, however, with Mineski forfeiting their series with No Use Talking due to “internal team issues”. Miraculum also struggled to field a full roster due to the absence of Alaya but were able to get a last-minute replacement in AmuroRay.
Miraculum vs. J3X.Eternity
Game 1: Lijiang Tower
The series that Miraculum’s playoffs fate rested on went underway, starting at Lijiang Tower. Within the Garden variant, both teams ran similar compositions, with the only difference being a Zenyatta for Miraculum and a Lucio for J3X.Eternity. J3X.Eternity started strong, with a win during the initial clash and captured the point. Miraculum did capture the point twice, but for brief intervals, as they never wiped J3X.Eternity. The first time they were beaten back due to the support ultimate advantage J3X.Eternity had over them, and the second thanks to a great Self-Destruct from J3X.Eternity’s AngelFall netting the key targets of Fascinate’s Winston and Daily420’s Mercy. The map finished with J3X.Eternity getting the first map point, 100%-31%.
Moving to the Control Center, Miraculum switched to the death-ball lineup, with AmuroRay on the Reinhardt and Fascinate on the Zarya. This worked out for Miraculum and they set up a defensive anchor as they captured the point. With J3X.Eternity’s counter-attack though, Miraculum were forced to use the support ultimates of the Transcendence and Valkyrie early from Zyrille and Daily420 respectively. This allowed J3X.Eternity’s ItsNotOkay to get a Dragonblade out and slice up Miraculum. Miraculum did come back, but a triple kill from AngelFall’s Self-Destruct on the D.Va after block Xenos’ Deadeye with the Defense Matrix stopped the offense. A second push came from Miraculum and they got good kills and ultimates off, but another Dragonblade from ItsNotOkay turned back the tide in favor of J3X.Eternity. J3X.Eternity won the variant 100%-40% and took the map 2–0.

A Damage Boosted Dragonblade seals the defense for J3X.Eternity.
Game 2: Watchpoint: Gibraltar
Moving on to the payload map of Watchpoint: Gibraltar, Miraculum took the defense first. Going with a more comfortable lineup of a double hitscan DPS with the death-ball, Miraculum held fast as J3X.Eternity pushed the payload past the first choke. While Fascinate had a great Graviton Surge, this was countered by J3X.Eternity. Miraculum was out of position to block the payload from reaching the first point. Heavily staggering Miraculum, J3X.Eternity pushed into the hangar with ease and captured the second point. Now back outside, the payload neared the final point, and Miraculum rushed to a successful defense. J3X.Eternity went for one final push initiated by a Sound Barrier, but Miraculum staggered with great synergy, delaying the payload from reaching the end. With half of Miraculum swapping heroes, they kept the point from the end until 9.1 seconds were remaining. At the end, a combination of the knockback from the Jump Pack of Ikon’s Winston and a Concussive Blast from ItsNotOkay’s Pharah sent Miraculum flying away from the payload. J3X.Eternity finished the map with the full 3 points.
For Miraculum’s attack, Xenos’ brought out the Widowmaker to great success. With good hits and key positioning, the Widowmaker facilitated a steamroll for Miraculum to the first point. Now the eye of J3X.Eternity’s attention, Xenos’ presence made the D.Va, Winston, and Genji of J3X.Eternity go to Miraculum’s backline while the rest of Miraculum wiped out J3X.Eternity. The second point was capped while a Dragonblade ran rampant at Miraculum’s backline. For the third point, J3X.Eternity was finally able to put up a good defensive position and beat back Miraculum as AmuroRay and Zyrille were caught out of position. A new push, highlighted by a great combo from Fascinate and AmuroRay by timing the Graviton Surge and Earthshatter one after the other, gave Miraculum the third point. Miraculum finished the map with 2 minutes and 31 seconds to spare.

Good timings from both Fascinate and AmuroRay’s ultimates set up the full capture for Miraculum.
Having a new set of attack and defense, both teams were added 51 seconds to their time banks, as J3X.Eternity was allotted the minimum 1 minute for their attack. J3X.Eternity struggled in the initial clash, as Miraculum picked off 2 and went down as the payload descended. With a final push after a kill on Fascinate’s D.Va, J3X.Eternity neared the first point. Xenos initiated the defense with the Deadeye, picking off one and getting a good Flashbang onto the enemy Mercy. As AmuroRay ran rampant on J3X.Eternity, Miraculum defended the first point with success.
Now on their second attack, Miraculum went with the Widowmaker once again. This time, J3X.Eternity countered with a Reaper taking down the tanks, forcing Xenos’ to retreat. With good positioning, J3X.Eternity rendered two ultimates from Miraculum useless and beat them back a second time. For another attack, Xenos switched to the Reaper and AmuroRay got a Charge kill onto TCC’s Mercy. The third push was a resounding success, and Miraculum took the map 4–3, evening up the series.
Game 3: Temple of Anubis
Moving to the Temple of Anubis, Miraculum went on the attack first. Xenos’ was once again thrust on the Widowmaker, and he got 2 isolated kills to allow Miraculum to move in. Miraculum went indoors and unwisely clashed at the top side, and their confinement allowed Tsukoyomix’s Ana to hit them with a Biotic Grenade. J3X Eternity went inside, and Miraculum fell as Xenos’ had no sight of his teammates. After a second failed push, Miraculum switched to a Pharmercy combination. Miraculum did get 2 key picks on J3X.Eternity, but a zoning Self-Destruct from AngelFall allowed Cloud to use a Nano-Visor and wipe out Miraculum. Miraculum struggled on their last push and were only able to get the first tick of the first point due to a last-minute Self-Destruct from Fascinate.
The teams swapped sides and J3X.Eternity went on the attack. ItsNotOkay ran the Widowmaker, forcing the supports of Miraculum to be put out of position. As Cloud’s Tracer flanked from the backline to get a kill on Daily420’s Zenyatta, J3X.Eternity rushed to the point. One by one, Miraculum fell and J3X.Eternity took the first point. The map went to J3X.Eternity 2–1, and the series mirrored the map score.

Cloud gets the Nano Boosted Tactical Visor off and wipes out Miraculum.
Game 4: King’s Row
The series now went to King’s Row, and J3X.Eternity started the map off on the attack. Running both the Hanzo and the Widowmaker, the two snipers set off to get picks on Miraculum. With the pressure from both alongside the rest of J3X.Eternity, AmuroRay was forced to fight rather than keep his Reinhardt shield up. Miraculum fell to the pressure and ceded the first point. Sticking with the double sniper lineup J3X.Eternity tried to get through the streets of Kings Row, but were beaten back Miraculum. Going with a more standard lineup and switching the Widowmaker and Hanzo to a Genji and a Lucio, they were still wiped by Miraculum through a Graviton Surge from Fascinate. After losing another clash to Miraculum, J3X.Eternity got a good initiate as both ItsNotOkay and Xenos went past one another to get a Dragonblade on their respective opposing backlines. ItsNotOkay had a barely contested ultimate, and J3X.Eternity was able to push to the second point. Past 2 corners to the third point Miraculum countered the push with an offensive Sound Barrier, forcing J3X.Eternity to retreat. Regrouping, J3X.Eternity got a good dive on Zyrille’s Mercy and almost brought the payload to the final point. Miraculum countered with another Graviton Surge from Fascinate alongside a Tactical Visor from Grand, pushing back the attackers. J3X.Eternity had one final push and fought on the payload, eventually slaying most of the players of Miraculum to capture the third point during Overtime.
Miraculum switched to the attacking role, going for the double hitscan DPS of the McCree and Soldier:76. Miraculum took the first point as their damage took down the Winston bubble shield with ease. Going to the second point, the defending J3X.Eternity went on the attack, pushing Miraculum towards their spawn. A commitment of the Tactical Visor by Cloud allowed Miraculum to punish this play with a Graviton Surge after a Sound Barrier. Miraculum’s plays did not stop there, as Daily420 was able to displace the incoming Nanoblade from ItsNotOkay while Grand was at the back of J3X.Eternity, killing with his Tactical Visor. Miraculum took control of the second point and went ahead to try to get a good position to take the third and final point. J3X.Eternity came back and once again dove Miraculum to accomplish the same result- a Graviton Surge from Fascinate shutting the attacking defense down. Miraculum tried to set up a play after the team kill, but poor positioning allowed J3X.Eternity to defend at the last moment. J3X.Eternity then won clash after clash, forcing Miraculum back to their spawn. Finally, another great setup from Fascinate got Miraculum back to the payload. After multiple kills and a decent stagger from J3X.Eternity, Miraculum was able to cap the final point with 55 seconds remaining.

A Soundwave from Daily 420 denies any Nanoblade kills while Grand flanks from behind to kill J3X.Eternity.
In the second round of attack and defense, J3X.Eternity was given the minimum 1 minute to attack. The attack went for the Pharmercy, and it paid dividends. ItsNotOkay caught out the defending Daily420 and Grand who were both on the high ground and J3X.Eternity captured the first point. Pushing the payload, J3X.Eternity was allowed to get past the first corner by Miraculum. Setting up near the alleyway, Miraculum was able to pick off the Mercy of TCC. A good Rocket Barrage from ItsNotOkay was not enough for J3X.Eternity. The players of Miraculum were resurrected by Zyrille and committed both the Death Blossom and Tactical Visor, sealing the defense.
Miraculum had almost 2 minutes for their attack. Now running a Pharmercy as well, a skirmish on the point occurred. Sealing the deal with a Graviton Surge, Miraculum took the first point. Playing aggressively, Miraculum was caught by J3X.Eternity as the payload moved. Forced to back off a bit, J3X.Eternity took a good position as Miraculum grouped up. Forced to go, Miraculum went in and a great counter-attack from Cloud wiped out most of the attackers. Fascinate had other plans, and a clutch Graviton Surge turned the tide in favor of Miraculum. The members of J3X.Eternity contested but were killed by Miraculum. Still pushing to the distance J3X.Eternity accomplished, Miraculum were stalled as ItsNotOkay on the Tracer kept Blinking in and out to stop the payload. A final clash happened and AmuroRay on the Reinhardt hit a well-placed Earthshatter, stunning most of J3X.Eternity. Miraculum wiped the defenders and won the map, 5–4. The series was now tied 2–2.

AmuroRay seals the win for Miraculum with a great Earthshatter and follow-up Charge.
Game 5: Oasis
After an exhilarating previous match, the series moved on to Oasis. On the City Center variant, Miraculum were able to win the first clash after a pick-off on the enemy Mercy. A few more clashes occurred, but Miraculum dominated the fights. At 99% however, AngelFall flew into the point to force overtime, and Xenos responded by denying J3X.Eternity their Sound Barrier with an impressive stick of the Pulse Bomb onto Tsukuyomix’s Lucio. The two teams clashed, but a good Sound Barrier from Daily420 allowed Miraculum to kill off J3X.Eternity. The variant finished 100%-0%, in favor of Miraculum.
Now moving to the University, J3X.Eternity brought out the Pharmercy once again. While University is known as the worst variant to play Pharah on Oasis, ItsNotOkay made it work and got key picks on Miraculum. J3X.Eternity took the initial clash and controlled the point, forcing Miraculum to regroup. Miraculum took their time with their attack, and Fascinate got a good Graviton Surge onto J3X.Eternity. Good communication from J3X.Eternity allowed them to counter this even with the tanks blocking the DPS’ lines of sight. J3X.Eternity pushed to Miraculum’s side, and then wisely fell back as the percentage grew near to 100%. Miraculum was desperate to go in and fought tooth and nail to get the point. Now defending, Miraculum had an ultimate disadvantage, and an amazing Shield Generator from Ikon’s Winston blocked Fascinate’s Graviton Surge. Miraculum was wiped out, and J3X.Eternity recaptured the point, finishing the map 100%-48%.
The map was now tied 1–1 as it moved to the Garden variant. J3X.Eternity established a foothold on the point with their Lucio, and Miraculum failed to fight them off it. J3X.Eternity took the first capture of the point as Miraculum regrouped. Even with good picks from Xenos for the next fight, a Rocket Barrage onto Zyrille’s Mercy stopped Miraculum’s push. Miraculum came in for one last fight but another pick-off on Zyrille, this time through the Self-Destruct, sealed the defense. Even with a last-minute Self-Destruct from Fascinate killing 2 it was not enough and J3X.Eternity won the variant, 100%-0%. The map went to J3X.Eternity 2–1, and they led the series 3–2.

A great stick by Xenos with the Pulse Bomb denies the Sound Barrier.
Game 6: Dorado
With Miraculum on the ropes, the series went to Dorado. Miraculum went on the attack first, and the two sides battled in the skies with their Pharmercy combos. As the payload reached the archway choke, Xenos’ Pharah got a pick on the enemy Pharah of ItsNotOkay and the aerial supremacy secured the attack for Miraculum. With a capture of the first point through a Graviton Surge by Fascinate, the second point was unlocked and J3X.Eternity moved to secure the high ground for their defense. This worked out as the Tactical Visor from Cloud halved Miraculum, forcing the regroup. Miraculum had the ultimate advantage with 5 ultimates ready, but poor ultimate use minimized the succeeding payload push. J3X.Eternity came back at Miraculum at the second point archway, and a pick-off of the Winston forced the Mercy to come in and go for the Resurrect. The Graviton Surge was tossed onto the Mercy, and the lack of sustain allowed Miraculum to capture the second point. Moving indoors, the Pharah became less effective, and the NanoVisor from Cloud stopped the momentum Miraculum had. Two pushes later, an extended third clash allowed Miraculum to have a slow push with the payload as J3X.Eternity piled on the pressure. After a Rocket Barrage from ItsNotOkay, Miraculum were finally pushed back. Having time for a last attack, Miraculum went for the Graviton Surge initiation and the team focused on the clumped up defenders. However, not 1 member of Miraculum went to the payload, and the timer ended their attack with only 2 points.
Now defending, Miraculum set out to try and full hold the map with a Junkrat on Xenos. J3X.Eternity unleashed extensive Pharah play and the slow push worked out in favor of J3X.Eternity who captured the first point. Miraculum set-up on the high ground for their second point defense, but AmuroRay fell to the ground and Miraculum was forced to initiate. Soundly defeating the defenders, J3X.Eternity kept on pushing the payload. As Miraculum came back, J3X.Eternity forced both the Valkyrie from Zyrille and the Transcendence from Daily420 out early. With no defense available for Miraculum, J3X.Eternity pushed them back and captured the second point. With the payload now indoors, Miraculum switched to a more close-quarter-combat oriented lineup with the Reaper, stopping J3X.Eternity’s momentum. J3X.Eternity bounced back and committed ultimates on key targets on Miraculum’s side, and the trades were enough for Miraculum to fall. J3X.Eternity pushed past Miraculum’s record and won the map 3–2.

J3X.Eternity going on the offensive with their defense to stop Miraculum in their tracks.
J3X.Eternity wins the series, 4–2!
Both Mineski and Miraculum finished the season with 3–4 records, for 12th and 13th place respectively. Miraculum is currently in Kuala Lumpur to participate in the Red Bull Coliseum Overwatch 2017 Tournament. With Alaya unable to make the trip, Miraculum called out to the retired Justin “Caladbolg” Limbo as a stand-in for the tournament. The team hopes for a good result as to measure up where they stand in the region, and to adjust in preparation for the Overwatch Open Division Season 3 this November.
