---
title: "Overwatch Open Division Season 2, Week Two Recap (Filipino Teams)"
date: 2017-09-23T12:14:34+06:00
image: "images/blog/blog10.png"
description: "Miraculum faces off against GameHome, while the other Filipino teams struggle with technical problems."
draft: false
---

With every Sunday of the weekend, another round of the Overwatch Open Division Season 2 comes and goes. In this second round, Miraculum was featured against Vietnam’s GameHome. With Miraculum at 0–1, they sought to even up their record, and keep their playoff dreams alive.

Map 1: Lijiang Tower
The first map of the series started in the Control Center variant, with Miraculum getting a good start with the Junkrat pick on Fil “Xenos” Mayor. They kept the point in their hands until GameHome’s Sentinal got a pick-off, allowing GameHome to cascade kills and capture the point. GameHome then followed this up with a Team-Kill with the Graviton Surge-Dragonblade Combo. Miraculum charged at the point, getting kills but never had a full squad to recapture the point. GameHome’s defense was solidified by great ultimate usage by Manji on the Zarya, and they took the first point of the map.
Moving on to the Night Market, Miraculum took the point first by punishing the aggressive start of GameHome. Miraculum had great control of the map, led by Yuuki “Fascinate” Tanaka, who separated GameHome with his Winston. Gian “Alaya” Santos also had great pick-offs with his Tracer, keeping the pressure on GameHome. GameHome did break Miraculum’s defense after pressuring Miraculum and cemented it with a Dragonblade from Ragemaster. In a repeat of the previous round, Miraculum rallied to take the point but were denied by Sentinal’s McCree,who took them out with his Deadeye. GameHome took the point and the first map of the series, 2–0.

GameHome solidifes their position with a team wipe. A 6 man Graviton Surge followed up by the Dragonblade caught out Miraculum.

Map 2: Watchpoint: Gibraltar
The second map of the series started off with Miraculum on the attack, to a great success on their part. Facing off a Junkrat-Sombra defense from GameHome, Miraculum utilized a Pharmercy with Xenos on the Pharah and Zyrille King “Zyrille” Algenio on the Mercy for their attack. They steamrolled through the first two points, forcing GameHome to switch their lineup. With their lineup swaps, GameHome had no ultimates ready and a Sound Barrier from Dexter “Daily420” Paglinawan on the Lucio allowed Miraculum to advance towards the third point, and take the full score on the map with 3 minutes remaining.
On GameHome’s attack, both the attack and the defense ran the dive comp, with almost similar lineups. GameHome handily took the first point, with the smart play from Anmt on the Lucio which allowed GameHome to chase down Miraculum’s heroes. Snowballing on towards the second point, GameHome ran down Miraculum, destroying their defenses even with the Dragonblade from Ragemaster not connecting onto Miraculum. On the third point, good tracking from both Alaya and Xenos provided key pick-offs and stopped GameHome’s pushes. GameHome responded by switching to a Reaper, and the hero swap led them to push the payload to the end. Their time was a lot shorter due to finishing through overtime and GameHome was given a minute for the next round.
For the second round, GameHome started on the attack. With both teams running dive comp again, Miraculum won the first clash. By GameHome’s final push, Xenos had his Tactical Visor and this sealed the first point defense for Miraculum. Miraculum then went on the attack, with only 41 meters for them to push. GameHome utilized a triple tank composition, along with a Mercy pick. While this did delay Miraculum, a Self-Destruct from Joshua “Grand” Ogame killed the lone defender beside the payload. This allowed him to push to cart as he came out of his mech. Miraculum won the map with a score of 4–3, and the series was tied 1–1.

Good tracking secures the kills and enough ultimate charge for Xenos to unleash the Tactical Visor.

Map 3: Horizon Lunar Colony
The third map brought both teams to the moon, and Miraculum started on the attack. GameHome anchored their position on the first point with a Torbjorn-Orisa defense. While Miraculum’s death-ball lineup did get them to the point, Sentinal on the Torbjorn and Ragemaster on the Tracer stopped them from capturing even a single tick. Miraculum toiled away, and an impressive Earthshatter from Fascinate’s Reinhardt, followed by a Graviton Surge from Grand’s Zarya and a Death Blossom from Xenos’ Reaper allowed them to take the point. For the second point, Sentinal switched to the McCree and stopped the initial push. Miraculum struggled to get to the point, but a flank to the left side followed by an Earthshatter from Fascinate’s Reinhardt gave them that chance. GameHome staggered the point well and got a pick through a switch to Pharah by Sentinal. Alaya was picked off as the Sound Barrier from Daily420 was too late to save him, and Miraculum had no more counter to the Pharah. Miraculum ended their attack without a single tick on the second point.
For GameHome’s attack, Sentinal brought out the Widowmaker, and immediately got 2 picks on Zyrille and Fascinate. The 6 vs. 4 advantage allowed GameHome to destroy Miraculum’s defenses. This gave them a quick cap for the first point. For the second point, the 2 DPS players of GameHome were taken down by Miraculum, stopping their initial push. GameHome then went in, and a great Primal Rage from Neyughoaht took down Daily420 and Xenos, preventing the Tactical Visor from being used. Sentinal, now on the McCree, was also able to get key headshots, which allowed his team to cap the point. GameHome won the map in less than 2 minutes, with a score of 2–1. The series was also now 2–1, in favor of GameHome.

A great combination from Fascinate, Grand, and Xenos leads to their capture of the first point.

Map 4: King’s Row
The fourth map of the series landed on the Hybrid map of King’s Row. Miraculum, on the attack, started off with the Hanzo but it did not work out. GameHome then pushed Miraculum back to their spawn and defended from an advanced position. Miraculum had a good chance to capture the point, after a kill on Ragemaster and the Graviton Surge from GameHome not netting any eliminations. They did get 2 ticks, but fatal mistakes such as Daily420 being picked off with the Deadeye and Alaya and Zyrille running into each other and dying to Ragemaster’s Pulse Bomb allowed GameHome to come back and defend the point. Another chance came along with a good initiation from Alaya with his Deadeye, but Xenos was not able to get the kill onto Anmt’s Ana. Miraculum’s final push for the map was able hampered due to Fascinate getting flanked, forcing him to turn around and die without being able to use his Earthshatter to initiate. Miracalum ended the map with a 98.5% capture of the point.
Switching sides, GameHome was then put on the attack. Sentinal once again went for the Widowmaker, and an incredible flick-shot onto Alaya allowed GameHome to swoop in for the kill. Manji and Ragemaster led the charge and killed the rest of Miraculum. As GameHome danced on the capture point, Alaya tried to contest but was shot in the head by Sentinal, sealing the map for GameHome with the score of 1–0. GameHome needed only 1 more map win to take the series, as the score became 3–1.

Sentinal gets Alaya with two amazing shots at the start of the attack and at the end while his team is “distracted”.

Map 5: Oasis
With Miraculum pushed into a corner, they chose the fifth map of the series, Oasis. The map started on the University variant. Both teams ran standard dive compositions and headed towards the point. Sentinal got the first two kills of the map on Alaya and Xenos. GameHome pushed this advantage and captured the point. GameHome held the point until the very last moment, with Miraculum committing four ultimates to capture the point. While Miraculum advanced to get a forward position, a great Flashbang from Sentinal’s McCree caught out Alaya, allowing his team to go in and recapture the point, and take a 1–0 lead.
Moving on to the Gardens, Miraculum switched back to the Pharmercy combination. GameHome got key pick-offs and captured the point. Miraculum decided to dive and focus on Sentinal, but GameHome came to his support and fended Miraculum off. Miraculum staged a final push as the percentage reached 99%, and things looked grim with Xenos’ Rocket Barrage being blocked. Zyrille was forced to Resurrect Xenos only, and Xenos focused on Sentinal, who was casting Deadeye. Sentinal was about to shoot his Deadeye to kill Xenos, but a key Jump Pack and Shield Generator by Fascinate’s Winston knocked Sentinal and the shot to hit the barrier instead. Xenos then got the kill on Sentinal, and the rest of his team cleaned up to take the point. Miraculum put up a great fight and kept the point until overtime but Neyughoaht was able to use the Primal Rage to allow the rest of his team to come back. Sentinal got a number of clutch kills and Ragemaster killed Alaya with the Pulse Bomb to seal the map in GameHome’s favor, 2–0.

The solo-res from Zyrille works out as Fascinate is able to protect Xenos from Sentinal’s Deadeye. This allowed Miraculum to take the point.
Gamehome wins the series, 4–1!

For the other Filipino teams, Mineski and Fatal Faction were both forced to forfeit their match-ups. Mineski’s gaming house had no power due to a nearby accident, which took out the whole grid. Fatal Faction was also not able to play, due to the PC’s that would run Overwatch were unprepared at their match time. Mineski now held a 1–1 record, and both Miraculum and Fatal Faction fell to 0–2. For their next match-ups, Mineski will face Bazaar, while Fatal Faction and Miraculum will be facing each other on stream.
